Mmm, yes, we will keep it as direct.
If someone complains like this, but they have proof.
So let's do…
Data certificate.
Okay, Aruba, so this interview will be about, uh, basics, some intermediate things, maybe some advanced things also, related to Python,
Git, uh, docker,
networking, computer networking.
Right, and deployment little things, right?
So, I'll just quickly start.
Where the…
some Python things, right? Uh, see…
don't… you don't have to remember the syntax, you don't have to remember the terminologies, the words.
Uh, we just want to see your logic.
Okay, and your concepts, right? So you can just explain… if you want to write, you can write
But there are no, like, deductions or…
consideration of syntax-related things at all, right?
So I'm going to give you…
I'm going to give you a small
problem, and this is actually, let's say,
an error of numbers.
And you have, let's say, 2…
2…
3… 3…
3…
One… one…
6… 10… right? So this is an array of numbers, right? Okay, okay.
What I have to do, I have to apply some logic.
programmatic logic to convert this array
To convert this list of numbers into something like this.
So, any repeated numbers are eliminated.
Right? So, how… how can you scan the array?
Item by item. How can you scan the area item by item, and what can you do?
to get this result to eliminate the repeating.
Just your logic, right? And by the way, take your time, think about it for 2 minutes. First, think about it for 2 minutes, right?
then you can discuss.
If you want to write something, you can. Your choice.
But think about it, don't immediately answer the problem-solving questions.
For example, this is the list.
I think this quantit number.
To start this, I mean, you should, uh…
And, for example, create as a list.
dictionary. Uh, whatever you like. Uh, for example, unique?
Okay.
Okay?
a set, let's say set, right? Set is equal, okay.
You save all the unique number?
Here, to print it. Okay. How will you save first? Use a for loop.
Okay, for a loop, okay? For loop.
And you will store everything to a set?
for, for example, you know?
Ing number? Yes.
You are storing it, I think, in set, right? You told me.
No, it's fine, don't remember the sentence, just write whatever you… whatever you like. For example, if…
Venom…
here in Unique.
Yeah, in?
You can write in unique, it's fine, I'll do fine.
No, uh, for example. Yes, if number in Eurek is fine, just write it down.
Or not in is fine, whatever you… Not in unique. Okay.
I've been to Benham for a day.
Okay, yes, it's fine. Yes, it will go. But not in a unique…
For example, unique?
I've been… You already have done it, Turbo, yeah.
Jenny, for example, in here, in Palestin?
Not only, yes, you've done it, like, it's… I understand, yeah.
So, you've done it, right? You are checking if the number is not there only then you add, right? So you don't get repeated elements.
Yes. Correct. Yeah.
Nice. Okay, what else?
Give me just one move. But I did it very quickly.
Right, so let's…
do this one, which is, uh…
For example, let's say…
And you have numbers from 1 to 1 to 10.
You have numbers from 1 to 10, right? One number is missing.
Okay, so now, the thing is, the numbers will always be
from 1 to 10.
Uh, any number can go missing, only one number.
And it's always in series, like, it starts from 1 and ends.
21? At 210, right? Mr. Number 4? 4 is missing. How would you identify in a for loop that the number is missing?
How can you figure out…
Think about it, take your time.
And you can do anything you like, anything you like.
Yeah, and the old… and if, for example, if I, in the…
In the range of…
of N?
Okay. And if it is, yeah, an increment by one. Okay.
Look at that. Okay, so for example, what you're saying is… because these are 10 numbers, right? Yes, 10 numbers. So, uh, like, 1, 10.
will generate from 1 to 10, right?
Yeah, 11, actually. So, 1 to 10. Because of this one, 1 to 9.
Now, this I is 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7… now what will you do? How will you identify from this list?
Will you compare, like, what will you do? It is, for example…
Yeah, and if… this is, for example, the minimum.
Nemo, the number?
And this is the maximum.
Okay. Maximo? No more? But?
It is increment as a 1.
Yeah, but actually, I want to find out who.
I'm missing. Not maximum, minimum.
I want to find force…
I want to… I want to just print 4ism.
Wait, you know, just print 4 is missing, nothing else.
So, okay, this is fine. Now, this I is 12345678910, right? But this is another list.
Let's say this is another list.
This I… this range is going to give you another list.
Yes, from 1 to 10. And this is from 1 to 10, but one is missing.
So, do you want to compare both of… both IE with this list, and, like, how would you like to do it?
For example, if I make… if…
If I increment by 1, any…
So, for example, eyes one, right?
Yes, it's… it's 1. Okay, then? Then, for example, plus 2?
plus 1 x is equal to, and like this.
And 2 plus 1, 2, 3.
3 plus 1? 4. This is the missing value, I mean.
4 plus 1? But how do you know this is missing? Maybe 5 is missing.
Ready to hear, like, in the if condition,
In the if condition, you are actually checking RE,
With what? I with what?
like, eyes? Yeah.
I, with what I'm trying to… Compare I with the no.
With this rate, this list. Okay, so you compare one with one first, right? And then, two with two, three with two, and four, there's no 4, right? 4. If that happens, then?
Yep, yes, that's what I'd like to hear, yeah.
Good.
Uh, okay, now…
You are building an app, uh, in Hackathon, you were working on, uh…
an application, digital twin, right? Like, uh…
Yeah, for example, I just…
I just want you to tell me that, uh,
Based on all of the knowledge that you have acquired throughout the trainings.
Right? Product screenings, you have required… you have… you've learned about Python Basics, you know about networks, you have…
virtual machines, containerization, and everything, right? Yes.
So…
your digital twin. I'm just talking about the web application, right? Not anything else, just the UI.
and APIs. So…
Can you tell me…
Can you tell me the process, like, how you created…
like, how UI and APIs are working together? Are they actually…
Is UI part of API, actually? Or is UI not a part of API? Is it separate?
in your digital twin project.
Let's say you want to design that application from scratch, how would you do it?
From scratch? Like, what will you do first?
Jennifer, thanks, I make the backend and the… How will you make the backend? And by the Python code.
Okay, like, just walk me through, right? Like, for example, walk me through, and it says high level only.
First, you will…
You will write some Python code. Yeah, Python code. And then, what will you use? Run it.
Like, how will you create an API?
Uh, Aruba. So…
which library would you use for the API?
Okay, let's use first.ABI, and then use it, and we put the key, the imp…
This is key. In .EK in V5.
Key forward for ABI, for example. If you are using an API, right? Like, forget about the digital twin. Okay, let's forget about everything.
Let's say you want to brief an anonymous feedback API.
Where customers can give feedback, can see the feedback, can actually delete the feedback.
So, how can you…
create the API using First API, high level only.
Right? What are the endpoints that you would go for?
It can just tell me, or maybe write it.
highlights on the… Okay, so for example…
If we want to create a feedback, let's generated on here.
Yeah, and it is, I know, and then share it for the GitHub.
Yes, so whatever, just write everything. Like, how will I start, what will I do next, how will I deploy it?
How will they containerize it? Everything.
You need to show it as a diagram here in the paper, right?
To publish it in a Docker Hub.
Yeah, I mean, first, we built the application of the code in the Wi-Fi.
If you design at the back end? Can you… can you draw also? Like, for example, if…
Okay, excellent, okay. Let's say feedback application. What will you do first?
I will go for you. Design the, for example, in the back end by Python program.
Okay, I mean, right here. Back-end and front-end. The back-end Python and the front-end HTML, fine. HTML only. Yeah, HTML, that includes Java and, uh… JavaScript or Java?
JavaScript and CSS, right? CSS, yes. But where would you put the UI? Where's the UI?
like, is it in your backend code or somewhere else?enev.
UI, user interface, your HTML file, where is your HTML file? HTML, uh, front end.
folder, right? Yes, yes, but where it is, like…
Okay, uh, so for example, this is your backend folder, right? Backend.
In the backend? Back in the Python? Yes, in the Python, right? And the front? Yeah, let's say frontend?
is this UI HTML, right? So, now you have two folders, right? Two folders.
One folder is backend, one is frontend, okay? Done? It is. Yes, now, how will you…
How will you deploy the application? And then, uh… can you test it?
Okay, tested. This is why Annie took a first in the browser.
Okay. Uh, right there.
Like, particular URL, okay?
Any other tool for testing? UA?
And then at the end, do we use Docker?
The containerization. Why would you use Docuan?
to do what? Uh, because Adoker, it is the only…
open source that aligned with, that contain nearly everything, any…
Anyone can, uh, run the application?
The only easiest way.
Uh, yeah, yeah. In easiest way, no need to write the, for example, your…
IV or the board, uh, tournament.
the application in the browser.
Just by only clicking the docker, it is opening, and it will open for… But it has IP address and port.
Even if you click, the browser has… Yes, but you didn't write it down manually. Okay, so you can write it. Okay, so you're talking about convenience, right? Like, it is convenient.
It's easy. Okay, but anyways…
So, this API in UI, you also push it to GitHub or Uber?
Also, will you push it to GitHub also?
Maybe I? No. The backend and front-end, no need to push it to GitHub, okay.
Maybe I… I didn't… we didn't push it in the GitHub. No, no, like, for example, see…
Maybe I'm not rich. Yes, the file, the quote. Uh, what I'm trying to say, imagine you're building a new application,
And you're not alone.
You have many team members working on this application, right?
So, you're building a feedback application, forget about Hackathon Project, right?
So, you have Python code, you have HTML, CSS, JavaScript.
Do you need to push it to GitHub, or do you think it's fine? Let's leave it.
to any updates?
If anyone, for example, make an update and change in the code, we can build it easily, Yanni.
Okay, collaboration, right? You can find it in the GitHub.
And, uh, for example, make Aribo.
and everyone share his work in the report. Why don't you just use Google Drive?
All of you. You can also put it in Google Drive.
But you… can you use it? Like, why GitHub? Like, you have to learn Git,
branches come at so many things. Why not just use Google Drive? Yeah, for example, uh, GitHub for…
Each of them can…
Work in a separated branch. For example, if first one, if the first one, for example, make any change in the code… Yeah.
Annie, doesn't it conflict with other reports? Vanibirds in other…
Good. Nice, nice, nice. Okay. So, and then, um… The niceness.
Okay, that's nice, right? So, really, to the point.
a good featured launch. Okay, let's… now you have the API and UI, and also on GitHub, right?
Now, this is a 24-7 machine.
Yes. Pierre? Now, how would you move this application from here to here? What would be your approach?
24-hour?
Just move this application from here to here, it's already on GitHub. How will you do that?
And then in the winter, there was a fronta.
Okay. And this is a clonjo.
This is the… check your, uh, application.
Yeah, sorry. This is Mick, Annie, the server, it is the only continuously…
Check the working of your website. Yeah, but see, this is empty right now.
This is empty, there's nothing. How to move it to the window?
So I can… I can move it, uh… I can use VIN, SP… Even a shipping press? SCP? Like SSH, right? I will write SSH. SSH, it is… that is a protocol that allow you…
To secure communication between your local laptop to the remote. Okay, nice. To the remote computer virtual machine. And then what will you do, Bukhi?
Let's say you have a connection now. How will you move the app?
You can put it?
April?
No, no. Good clone? Popy-paste, okay. Yes, copy-paste, it is.
Yeah, it's possible, you're right. Should I not do it using it cloned? Because it's already on GitHub?
In Linux.
Linux, I think… in Linux, can I do a Git clone?
from GitHub, can I get it from GitHub or not?
Yes, you can in the 10 minutes. And by copy manually, right? Okay. Yes, okay, done.
Okay, let's say. But you have given me two approaches, right? You say GitHub, it's possible, but okay, which is good.
Everything is going good so far. Now, you have the application here.
Uh, so how do you run it now?
And so…
We can run it by any, uh…
First, uh…
By using SSH activated,
Let's attached, for example, my name at…
the… Okay, I understand. You have the connection. You already are inside, right? You already have copy-pasted the API input, right?
Now, how do you run the Python application inside?
Let's say your terminal is open.
what you were saying? SSLedge is open.
Now, what command would you…
like, not asking over the command, but to activate dot key and V…
VE and me, right? Okay, done, then?
Okay, let's say you activated the virtual environment, right? And then…
Next, what will you do?
Annie's… It's a Python application, like, how will you run it?
Python? Yes, yes.
No need to be confused, okay, right? So now your application is running, right? Python?
application is running. Now tell me…
You can do everything manually, like this.
then why Docker?
Why is there a need for Docker?
The special thing in the darker, and you can…
Docker have image and container.
The image was just straight, just straight.
But the container, it is, yeah, I need the processing case.
That means the processing? The suspicion in the Docker, it is a lightweight, yeah, I need no need to install, for example, Python virtual and everything from the beginning.
And from the beginning.
Okay, yes, I understand, I understand, but here, see, uh…
You can use Docker Container to move your application from here to here, right?
Yes, if you… and you face any problem in your laptop, for example, damage your laptop, you can easily move everything by using container in another laptop.
Okay, so that's what I'm talking about.
Yeah. But you told me how you can do it manually, right?
Yes. Then why use Docker? Because you can do manually.
Is there any benefit?
for using Docker? To make any the process automation.
automated, for example, there is a, for example, a Docker Compose. Okay.
That Docker combos allow you to run all the containers?
Yeah, I need at once, at the same time, all. Rather than, for example,
Uh, right, docker run, then you find name, find name, find name, find name. You can use…
And Docker Comboce?
And run it all at once.
Okay, yes, you are. So this can save a time.
Any other benefit? Yes, it will save time, definitely, right?
But, uh, for example,
Okay, one thing, Aruba. Why… what is the benefit of creating a Python virtual environment?
Why… we cannot… we can also work without it, right?
Um, because, yeah, in the Linux, for example, you're working in one project.
So, you should activate it, E and V, to make everything separately. For example, when you come to work to another project, there is no a conflict.
For example, in the project number one, for example, you want to download…
By from version 2. And in, uh, project number 2, you want to download
For example, Python version 3.
So, everything keeps abruptly, and it not conflict.
And it does not come, for example, the Python of version of Project 1 in the 2.
And, like it is…
Okay. No, no, no, you understand them very nicely.
Okay, everyone. So…
This is good, right? But…
For example, if I want to move
this app from this machine to this machine, let's say this is your Windows machine, right?
So, let's say I'm going to containerize it using Docker…
Dockerfile, right? I'm going to build image.
I'm… can I push the image to open up?
to Docker Hub.
Can I push the image of your application to Docker Hub?
Okay, and then can I pull it here?
from Docker Hub?
You sure can. And I can run the app, right? Yes, you can. So, all of these things are… I'm doing manually right now, right?
Do you see any benefits of CICD, actually?
Like, what is CICD? How would you…
Yeah, define it. See, I see, uh, CICDCI, it is a continuous integration.
that, for example, when a developer a code,
create a hood, and then the narrative, then push it to the GitHub.
Uh, to the GitHub, for example, uh, we are any… no need to, for example, wait for the code owners to check
To check if it is any correct or not. No, no, they will check, because… No, no, any… manually, manually.
And I am waiting for, for example,
Good owner, to check if it… and this is take a time.
But the benefit of this, yeah, and you make everything automatically.
Okay, so…
When you create a pull request, right? Yes.
Until you merge it to the main branch,
CI doesn't distract, actually.
Yeah, see, yeah, CI actually will tell you if your build is successful, right? Successful or not?
But still, the code review is needed. If you don't merge it to the main CD will not start. Still, you need approvals from code owners.
By using Agent Kens, Zhang can say… No, no, still, see?
I… I create a branch on GitHub, right?
I want your approvals first, because if I don't merge domain,
CD will not start automatically.
So I need approval, so it's not saving time.
It's… it's not… it doesn't…
ignore the poor reviews.
overviews have to be done. Yes, automatic what?
Not code reviews. Code reviews still need to be done. Automatically, that checking, and they need to push it.
branch, in the GitHub. If you push…
Uh, something to GitHub, let's say, right?
So, CI checks by building a replication if it is working fine, right? Yes.
But still, it will read.
For it to be merged to the main branch, right?
Okay. And to merge the image, you need approvals.
for code owners.
See, in my examples, what I'm doing, I'm directly pushing to the main branch, don't take my example.
But…
If you don't push to the main branch, even CI will not start, it will not build the Docker image, because
It is checking main branch, remember?
Jenkins was checking the main branch rate,
So, this is not the benefit… yes, there are other benefits, but you're saying, right?
But core owners…
are needed, always.
You cannot omit them, because they're CICD. It's more accurately.
No, what's not.
Like, for example, for example, 2 plus 2 is 4, right? Yes.
So, a person can write 2…
plus 2 plus 1 minus 1 multiplied by 5, divided by 5, plus 0 minus 0.
Equal to 4.
So, CI will say, yes, I see the full results are good.
But why?
confusing the developers by writing so many numbers, right? And why degrading the performance? By doing so many calculations? Code owners will catch that.
Gold owners will see if your code is written correctly, is optimized, is maintainable.
CI cannot check if the report is maintainable.
There are other ways to check it, but, like, it cannot…
So, the still co-donors are needed.
What CI do? It builds your application to make sure it runs.
Yeah. But it doesn't check your core… your bet code can also run, right? If it is success and it is correct with the Docker images. But if the code is bad, for example, 2++ is generating 5.
Imagine. Your application has 2 plus 2?
But it says 5, right? So, application is working, right? Yes. So, CI will say, good, everything is good, application works.
But it's wrong. The results are wrong. Code owners checks the core code logic and everything.
See, I cannot check that. Okay, let's move to… what other benefit do you see of CICD?
It's not code owners. Any other things that you see?
Any, sort of, about the shortest solution?
Yes, yes, what about that?
The shortest solution does give you…
That was the reason. The best foot, sorry? Reason, yeah.
Uh, no, I don't think so. It's not about research. You said something about automation.
It automates something. What was that? Yes, can you tell me what does it automate?
step by step? Jenkins HTTB, that identify another HTTP, if there is any event happen or action happens?
Okay. For example, if you make any change in record,
They will notify, yeah, there is a change. Okay. You should see any… you should correct it.
I get… Okay. And make sure it is success or not.
Okay. And then, if it is a success, it is booked Docker image.
like, this is the automated process, right?
Yes. So it's… what is the benefit of this automated process benefit?
And it's all the time.
So, you know you know, but…
Uh, there's a problem I sense in communication, but at least you know things.
you know, all of the things.
Right, so…
It's good. What are webhooks?
I don't know, because you just talked about webhooks, but you didn't use the name webhook.
So, how do you define webhook?
With Hook, uh, this seems…
It's way too many times.
Okay, I will give you an example. So…
So, for example, GitHub,
When you push something to GitHub,
GitHub tells Jenkins, right? Yes, Jenkins. So how is that possible?
It's possible by webhook, but, like…
Do I remember something about it?
nauseous. Uh…
You already told that an event will be triggered
Yes, with the webhook, it is deleted hook, it is at HTTP that notify another HTTP if any event…
Or if something, it is heaven. For example, if the developers make any change in the code,
They notify the…
I don't guess. I don't guess or some other service, right? Yes, Jenkins, there is any…
Something, yeah, I mean, having… there is a change.
You should DNA. From the beginning, Danny…
a ticket, and if it is success…
Yeah, no, good, good, good, good, good.
Okay, uh, you have seen AI agents, right, Eluba?
So, what is an AI agent? What can it do that ChatGPT cannot?
AI Agent, this is a nanny, like, application that, uh, make a decision.
And take action automatically, and can take action automatically. Like, for example, my example?
Yes, like, example of an action.
what kind of action can an agent take? And, for example, make a decision.
And it created a text. Okay. Like that.
Yeah. HSGB is not a language model, it is like ChatGPT.
Is it, for example, can again write in my texts?
Again, X, it is understandable, and readable by humans. Then what is the difference?
difference between them? Because you said AI agent can also, like, make decisions that ChatGPT can also.
make decisions. But the AIA can't make it that automatically.
Yeah, and you can make any decision.
Where I can…
Perform Actions can do.
can perform actions, right? Yeah. But ChatGP cannot perform actions, can just tell me. Yeah, it'll just tell you. Yeah, it's just, like, communication issues. Like a text. Yeah.
Early Adwa. Thank you.
That's it, right? Yes. I finished your interview. So I'm going to just… actually, I will tell you something. Let me stop the recording first.
Save.